♪♪
You're sure
you don't need help?
I'm sure everything
will go horribly wrong.
We'll be fine.
We got a Clone Wars
veteran with us.
Ready, Captain?
Yes, sir.
Uh, General. Kanan.
There was a battle here
during the Clone War.
This old transport's
the perfect place
to find weapons, ammo,
maybe even some proton bombs.
Hey, was this
a Separatist battle droid?
Oh, yeah. Little piece
of one anyway.
This place used to
be crawling with 'em.
We called 'em clankers.
Clankers. (CHUCKLES)
I like that.
How many of these things
do you think you blasted?
I don't know. Thousands.
Probably tens of thousands.
Never kept count
like some of the boys.
They don't look
very dangerous.
Listen, those droids
wiped out a lot of
Republic troopers.
Many of them
were my friends.
Rex has been
through a lot.
Battles leave scars,
some you can't see.
Hold up.
Let me recon first.
Well, look at that.
We hit pay dirt.
The munitions depot
is fully loaded.
More proton bombs in there
than we can carry.
Good job, Rex.
Way to go, Captain.
VOICE: Roger, roger.
(CHOPPER GRUNTING)
Hey, careful, kid.
The droids used to
protect their armories
with ray shields.
What's a ray shiel...
This is a ray shield.
Look! Aren't those
battle droids?
I thought they were
all shut down.
ZEB: Well, these weren't.
You have been captured
by the Separatist Alliance.
Huh?
Separatists?
BATTLE DROID: Prepare to
blast the Republic invaders.
Republic invaders?
Belay that order.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
(CHATTERING OVER COMLINK)
Roger, roger.
Wait, who's Roger?
We have new orders,
incapacitate and capture.
Activating stunner.
ALL: No!
(ALL GRUNTING)
Take them
to the command center.
We haven't captured
anyone in years.
anyone ever.
(GRUNTING)
Ugh.
Where... Where are we?
DROID: How intriguing.
Well done, B1-268.
BATTLE DROID: Roger, roger.
Oh, no. The war,
it's not over!
KANAN: Rex. Rex!
Cody!
Talk to me.
Ah, Kanan.
I'm sorry. I thought
you were someone else.
I need you
here now, buddy.
We're in the usual mess.
I think the commander's
a super tactical droid.
Ah, you're right.
He is.
Is that bad?
It's really bad.
That droid's
extremely intelligent.
Near the end of the war,
Separatist droids
significantly outnumbered
Republic units.
By my calculations,
our probability
of being defeated
was only 23.6%.
After Clone Order 66,
the whole droid army
was given a shutdown command.
How are you even operating?
The Jedi betrayal
ended the war
for most of the galaxy.
But here on Agamar,
I assumed it was
a Republic trick
and prevented
the shutdown command.
Well, it doesn't matter
how it ended.
The war is over.
Let us go.
Negative, Captain.
I calculate
that this will be
my only opportunity
to end the Clone Wars
as I planned,
with a victory for
the Separatist Alliance.
What do you want us
to do, surrender?
On the contrary,
I want you to fight,
to prove, once and for all,
whose tactical strategy
was superior.
Well, you can count me out.
I'm not playing some
stupid war game.
That is correct, Lasat.
Your species were not
in the Clone Wars,
so you will be the hostage
your allies must save.
The "Jedi Rescue" is
a recurring scenario
based on 132 battles
I have reviewed.
Yeah, we've done it
a few times.
Jedi, is this
your Padawan?
Most of the time.
Good.
A complete set
of Republic opponents
will make this authentic.
No, it won't,
because we're not fighting.
If you will not fight,
you will be terminated.
I'll fight your Clone War.
What?
Ezra, no!
Hey, you both talk
about the Clone Wars.
What it was like,
the good and the bad.
I wanna help you win
this last battle.
Besides, look at them.
How can we lose?
Uh, hey.
(SIGHS)
Okay, it might be easier
to fight them head-on
than to get out
of our current dilemma.
(EXHALES) Fine.
Fine, we'll do it.
Okay, but if we win,
Zeb goes free,
and we take
all the proton bombs
in the hangar.
I accept your terms.
The commander has
initiated Battle Plan Zeta.
Take your positions
at once.
ALL: Roger, roger.
BATTLE DROID:
Battle Plan Zeta? Finally!
(GRUNTING)
(BEEPING)
How much fuel did we get
before the ambush?
Enough for the whole fleet.
I just hope Kanan and Rex
aren't expecting us back
on Agamar anytime soon.
If Kanan needs help,
he'll call us.
Since when?
Fine. If Chopper's
in over his head,
he'll hide and call us.
SABINE:
That's more believable!
Congratulations.
Your plan to ambush them
at the fuel depot
worked like a charm.
Only if we catch them.
Excuse me, Governor.
We've intercepted
a rebel transmission
from the Agamar system
before it was received
by the rebel ship.
The message is encrypted,
but it repeats like
a distress signal.
Interesting.
The rebels there must
be desperate for help
that will never come.
Locate the nearest
Imperial outpost to Agamar
and deploy them.
Immediately.
TACTICAL DROID: (ON PA)
The objective of this battle
is simple.
You must fight your way
back to my command center
and capture it
to free your friend.
Rex, you've got more
battlefield experience
than either of us.
You lead.
All right. Our first goal
is to get inside the hangar.
Kalani is a war machine,
programmed to kill,
and he's got the numbers
and the firepower to do it.
Our only chance
is to be aggressive,
surprise him,
hopefully put him
on the defensive.
How many droids
do you think he has?
KALANI:  The last battle
will begin now.
A lot.
He has a lot of droids!
We've gotta scatter them.
Use the sword and shield
maneuver.
Wait. What does that mean?
We block, he fires.
Everybody ready?
Yep!
Let's go!
Ezra, get ready to duck!
Okay!
Now!
Again!
That scattered 'em!
Everybody forward!
Ezra, form it up!
(GRUNTS)
We've gotta stay together.
The hangar looks clear.
Let's go.
Wait. That's not how
it normally goes.
What's wrong?
The droids usually
keep coming,
wave after wave.
That tactical droid
has had a long time
to think about this.
And remember,
he wants to win.
I'm surprised
it means so much to him.
Yeah, it means a lot
to his programming.
It means a lot
to mine as well.
Your programming?
We clones were bred
for combat.
With few exceptions,
there was no other way
of life for us.
We should move.
Right, Commander.
Uh, Kanan.
Looks like my friends
are doing pretty good.
You might as well
surrender now.
I am not programmed
to comprehend your humor.
I'm not joking.
Ha, ha, ha.
Your Republic friends
have taken the bait.
Send in the destroyers.
Incoming!
KANAN: Ezra, get back!
They're too dangerous.
Can't advance with
those destroyers up there.
There's no way
to breach their shields.
Look! That crane!
I bet we can use it
to take out the catwalk.
I'll make a run for it.
We'll draw their attention.
There's gonna be
a lot of fire.
We'll have to be quick.
Ezra, move as fast
as you can.
You can count on me.
Ah, the Jedi have split up,
as they do 76% of the time.
Squad six, advance.
Move in!
REX: More droids!
We've gotta take cover.
Hey!
(GASPS)
(GRUNTS)
Hmm, Chop,
where've you been?
(GRUNTING)
How'd you send
a distress signal?
(GRUNTING)
Mmm! I'm kinda
in the middle of something.
(INSISTENT GRUNTING)
Okay, okay!
A shuttle!
It's a good find, Chop.
But we're not leaving
without Zeb.
So you get it running
and I'll get the others.
(GRUNTING)
Where is that kid?
We're gonna get
trapped here.
We need to move. Now.
No, Rex. Wait!
You all right?
(CHUCKLES)
I'm good.
Generation one armor
always holds up.
No ray shields
this time.
Well, that went
just as planned,
more or less.
I make a pretty good
soldier, huh?
No. A good soldier
follows orders.
That plan was based
on timing and execution.
And you took too long!
But Chopper
wanted to show me...
This is not a game!
This is life and death!
Every move you make
affects the rest of us.
If we're gonna survive this,
we're gonna do it
with strategy and discipline.
It's not you.
He needs to finish
this battle his way.
Just like that droid.
Rex, get between us!
REX: Ezra, incoming!
Push and fire, now!
(GROANS)
It worked!
Shield overheated.
That droid's too old.
Huh. Just like me.
You okay?
Yeah, I'll be fine.
(DOOR OPENS)
Well, looks like we win.
I disagree, Captain.
Rex, no! Don't!
We didn't win.
These droids are so old,
they malfunctioned.
If they hadn't,
we'd be goners.
The boy is correct.
The droid army
would have prevailed.
So, technically,
victory is ours.
No, it's not! I never
really thought about it.
I never asked.
I know the Jedi
were wiped out,
the clones were
decommissioned,
and the droid army
was just shut down.
The Clone War ended,
but why?
If none of you won,
who did?
ZEB: Uh, the Empire.
Zeb, that's right!
How did you know?
Because they're here,
and they're about
to win again.
I've got a new
calculation for you.
What are the chances
your droid army
can defeat the Empire?
My resources are depleted.
However, the droid army
is not currently at war
with the Galactic Empire.
You wanna bet?
Unit B1-268,
analyze the threat.
Roger, roger.
Move in.
(WEAPONS COCKING)
Is that what I think it is?
Greetings.
I am unit B1-268.
My commander has sent me
to report your intentions.
Yeah. Clone Wars
battle droid.
Surprised its battery
hasn't run out.
Um, are we...
Don't see many
of these anymore.
Oh, no. And when you do,
there's usually
a bunch of them.
All right,
you know the drill.
Greetings.
(SCREAMING)
Oh, my...
I think we face
a common enemy now.
Ah, wait a minute!
Let him finish, Captain.
Clones? Battle droids?
You destroyed each other.
And when you were
both weak enough,
the Empire took over.
General, what were
the Separatists fighting for?
According to
my programming,
freedom from the tyranny
of the Republic.
Hmm, fighting tyranny.
Sounds like the Empire
has always been your enemy.
You are against the Empire.
I am against the Republic.
Now the Republic
has become the Empire.
I accept your logic.
We are on the same side.
Sorry.
I guess we are.
However, as I stated,
my forces are
too depleted
for me to plan
a successful
counterattack.
Fighting
insurmountable odds?
We can help you with that.
(AGITATED GRUNTING)
Yes, Chopper, we know
the Empire is here.
How's the shuttle coming?
Shuttle?
What shuttle?
The one I tried
to tell you about earlier.
We have three
Sheathipede-class shuttles,
but they have no weapons.
No, but they can
get us outta here.
A successful retreat
is improbable.
The walkers will destroy
the ships before they
escape the hangar.
We don't have
the firepower to
take on walkers.
What about the bombs
we came here for?
We have no cannon
to fire the shells.
Otherwise, I would have
used them on you.
Oh, thanks.
We're running out of time!
REX: Ah, we roll 'em!
The proton bombs.
We roll 'em across
the hangar
and into the feet
of the walkers.
Then we blast 'em!
My battle droids
are not accurate.
However, you are,
Master Jedi.
I don't understand.
My droids will
line up and fire at you
and your apprentice.
You two will then
redirect their
blaster bolts
toward the shells
more accurately,
thus setting off
more targets
than my droids
could hit alone.
Well, this takes trust
to a whole new level.
(SIGHS)
Chopper, get the munitions
ready to roll.
REX: Ready, Zeb?
(SIGHS)
One last glorious day
in the Grand Army
of the Republic.
Chopper, have the shuttle
ready to go!
KANAN: D squad, get ready!
I have never attempted
such a desperate strategy.
That's why we always won.
Not always.
Hey, guys,
focus on the present.
Once those shells explode,
get to your shuttles.
BOTH: Roger, roger.
(BEEPING)
Now!
Fire.
This might be
our only chance.
Get to the ships!
I made it!
Aaah!
Lead shuttle,
bank right!
Bank right!
We made it!
General, do you read us?
Affirmative. We have
survived the battle.
It was not a victory,
but a successful strategy
nonetheless.
No, it was a victory.
We all just won
the Clone War,
and you ended it, Ezra.
A galaxy of senators
couldn't do that.
An army of Jedi, clones
and droids couldn't find
the middle ground,
but you did.
Rex, all I did
was point out that none
of you were meant to win.
You couldn't.
And we needed to hear it.
KALANI:  Agreed.
I am satisfied
if you are, Captain.
I am.
Very good.
Now, based upon this battle,
I calculate that
you have less than
a one percent chance
of staging a successful
rebellion against
the Empire,
so this is where
we must part ways.
Roger, roger.
I can't imagine
fighting that many
droids all the time.
(CHUCKLES) Well, if you
think that was bad,
let me tell you about
the Battle of Geonosis.
HERA: (ON COMLINK)
This is Ghost  to away team.
Spectre-1, are you there?
Hera, I was just
about to call you.
How was your day?
We're tracking two shuttles
leaving the system.
Is everything all right?
Did you have trouble
securing the bombs?
Well, the bad news is,
we didn't get the bombs.
The good news is,
we don't need a pickup
because we found
a new Phantom.
Tell Sabine she's gonna
need a paint job.